=head1 NAME

Games::RolePlay::MapGen::Editor - An experimental (eventually possibly cool) Map Editor

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Games::RolePlay::MapGen::Editor;

    my $editor = new Games::RolePlay::MapGen::Editor;
       $editor->run;

Here are some screenshots of the Editor:

L<http://voltar.org/PerlModules/grm-editor-shot1.png>
L<http://voltar.org/PerlModules/grm-editor-shot2.png>

=head1 INSTRUCTIONS

The documentation is pretty light on this, sorry.  I think most things in the
editor are pretty self explanatory if you mess around with it.  There are a few
things I should explain though.

The editor supports three types of tiles: walls, corridors and rooms.  Each tile
has four "closures" (north, east, south, and west).

There are three types of closures: walls, openings, and doors.  The doors have
various settings as well.

The only other thing that you need to know is that room tiles are special and
are linked to their group-mates.  They cannot be modified unless they're
converted to corridor tiles -- although their closures can be modified.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2008 Paul Miller -- LGPL [Software::License::LGPL_2_1]

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 Gtk2::Ex::PodViewer

I use this to display the package's very limited documentation.  It depends on
L<Locale::gettext>, which is shockingly difficult ot compile under win32.  It
turns out it's trivially removable from the package using this patch and the
environment variable NOGETTEXT.

    --- Gtk2-Ex-PodViewer-0.17-tJdpGn/Makefile.PL	2006-05-16 12:01:19.000000000 -0400
    +++ Gtk2-Ex-PodViewer-0.17-new/Makefile.PL	2008-05-14 15:01:48.000000000 -0400
    @@ -23,8 +23,9 @@
            'Pod::Parser'		=> 0,
            'IO::Scalar'		=> 0,
            'File::Basename'	=> 0,
    -    	'Locale::gettext'	=> 0,
    +    	($ENV{NOGETTEXT} ? () : ('Locale::gettext'=> 0)),
            'Pod::Simple::Search'	=> 0,
         },
    -    'EXE_FILES'			=> [ 'src/podviewer' ]
    +    'EXE_FILES'			=> [ 'src/podviewer' ],
    +    ($ENV{NOGETTEXT} ? ('PM_FILTER' => 'grep -v gettext') : ()),
     );


perl(1), Games::RolePlay::MapGen(1)
