
=head1 NAME

Games::RolePlay::MapGen::MapQueue - And object for storing objects by location, on a map, with visi-calc support

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Games::RolePlay::MapGen;
    use Games::RolePlay::MapGen::MapQueue;

    my $map = new Games::RolePlay::MapGen;
       $map->generate;

    my $queue = new Games::RolePlay::MapGen::MapQueue( $map );
       $queue->add( $object1 => (1, 2) );
       $queue->add( $object2 => (5, 3) );
       # The objects can be any unique identifier or reference (blessed or unblessed).

       $queue->replace( $object3 => (5, 3) );
       # remove first if it's already on the map somewhere else

       $queue->remove( $object3 ); # just remove it

    my $distance = $map->distance( $object1, $object2 );
    # the distance from o1 to o2 or undef if the tile is not visible

    my @all = $queue->all_open_locations;
    my @all = $queue->locations_in_line_of_sight( @dude_position );

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 new

C<new()> takes a single argument, which is required: a MapGen map object

=head2 retag

The MapQueue stores the location of objects by name for quick location queries.
After a deep copy (e.g. L<Storable>) or data dump (e.g. L<Data::Dumper>) object
tags for non-scalar queue entries (e.g. blessed references or references) will
not be linked correctly and you must C<retag()> the new copy to make everything
line up again.

    use Storable qw(dclone);
    my $q2 = dclone($queue);
       $q2->retag;

=head2 flush

Most of the MapQueue functions are cached with L<Memoize>, C<flush()> clears the
caches.

=head2 add

Store an object on the map at a specified location.  This function will raise an
error if the location doesn't make any sense.  To make sense, the location must
be within the map boundaries and must be an open tile -- either a corridor or a
room tile.  It will additionally raise an error if the object is already
elsewhere on the map.

    my $pistol = bless {}, "Sig P229r";
    $mq->add($pistol, (2,2) );
    $mq->add( "boring string", (2,3) );

See C<is_open()> below for a function to check whether a location makes sense.

=head2 remove

Remove an object on the map.  It raises an error if the object isn't on the map
or if the location doesn't make sense (see C<add()>).

    $mq->remove( $pistol );
    $mq->remove( "boring string" );

=head2 replace

Exactly like C<add()>, except that it removes the pistol iff it's already on the
map.

    $mq->replace( $pistol, (5,4) );
    $mq->replace( $pistol, (5,4) );
    $mq->replace( blagh => (2,3) );

=head2 location

Locates an object in the queue, returning the (x,y) coordinate.  Raises an error
if the object isn't on the map.

    my @loc = eval { $mq->add($pistol) }; warn "wasn't there" if $@;

=head2 distance

In scalar context, C<distance()> returns the distance from one object to
another.  It raises errors if the lhs or rhs objects aren't found in the queue.  
If there is no line of sight from the lhs to the rhs, the function returns a
scalar undef (even in list context).

    my $dist = $mq->distance( blagh => $pistol );

If C<distance()> is given a third argument that evaluates to true, distance will
instead return both the distance and a boolean value indicating whether there's
a line of sight.  (It returns the distance even if there's no line of sight.)

    my ($dist, $los) = $mq->distance( blagh => $pistol, 1 );

=head2 ldistance

Works rather like C<distance()> but takes locations as arguments instead of
objects.  It raises errors if either of the locations don't make sense (see
C<add()>).  If there's no line of sight, C<ldistance()> returns a scalar undef
(even in list context).

    my $dist = $mq->ldistance( (1,1), (2,2) );

If given a fifth argument, C<ldistance> returns C<$dist> and C<$los> like
C<distance()>.

    my ($dist, $los) = $mq->ldistance( (1,1), (2,2), 1 );

=head2 line_of_sight

Returns a scalar indicating whether there's a line of sight from the lhs object
to the rhs object.  C<$los> will be one of C<LOS_NO> or C<LOS_YES>, which are
exported in to the requiring namespace.  They are usable as booleans, so you
don't have to use the names, and are single scalars in list context.

The C<$los> values returned from distance are of the same type as the C<$los>
returned here.

    my $los = $mq->line_of_sight( blagh => $pistol );
    if( $los == LOS_NO ) { # if( $los ) is fine also
        # blargh
    }

The function raises errors if the objects aren't found on the map.

=head2 lline_of_sight

Works just like C<line_of_sight> but takes locations as arguments instead of
objects.  The function raises an error if the locations don't make any sense.

    my $los = $mq->lline_of_sight( (1,1), (2,2) );

=head2 closure_line_of_sight

Determines if there is a line of sight from an object to a closure (a wall,
door, or opening of a tile).  Presently there are no functions to return
door objects from the map, but you can get them from the map yourself.

    my $door = $map->[ $y ][ $x ]{od}{ w }; # west door of ($x,$y);

    $mq->add( $some_player_object );
    $mq->closure_line_of_sight( $some_player_object, $door );

The function raises errors if the C<$door> isn't a door object (or isn't on the
map) or if the lhs object isn't on the map.

The decision about whether there's a line of sight includes the idea that the
line of sight doesn't do much good if you can't see most of the door at an angle
that allows you to examine it...

That minimum angle is a package global that can be changed but defaults to 9
degrees.  The global is in radians, but can be set like this:

    $Games::RolePlay::MapGen::MapQueue::CLOS_MIN_ANGLE = deg2rad(9);

(C<deg2rad()> comes from L<Math::Trig>.)

=head2 closure_lline_of_sight

Like C<closure_line_of_sight()>, this tells whether there's a line of sight from
a tile location to a closure.  It takes I<five> arguments:

    $mq->closure_lline_of_sight( ($x,$y), ($x,$y,$d) );

Like the other "l-I<name>" functions, the lhs and rhs are coordinate pairs, but
unlike the others this function also takes a direction argument (to name the
closure).  The fifth argument must be one of 'C<n>', 'C<e>', 'C<s>', or 'C<w>'.

Predictably, it raises errors if the locations don't make sense or the direction
is incorrect or missing.

=head2 objs

Returns all the object so the map as an array.  Each element in the array is
just the objects as they were placed on the map.

    my @objs = $mq->objs;
    my ($pistol) = grep {m/P229r/} @objs;

=head2 objs_with_locations

Like C<objs()>, but also returns the locations.  Each element is an array ref,
whose first element is the location (as an arrayref) and whose second element is
the object.

    my @objs        = $mq->objs_with_locations;
    my ($loc, $obj) = $objs[0];
    my ($x,$y)      = @$loc;

=head2 objs_at_location

Like C<objs()>, but only returns objects at a specific location C<($x,$y)>.

    my @objs = $mq->objs_at_location($x,$y);

The function raises errors if the location doesn't make sense.

=head2 objs_in_line_of_sight

Like C<objs()>, but only returns objects with a clear line of sight from C<($x,$y)>.

    my @objs = $mq->objs_in_line_of_sight($x,$y);

The function raises errors if the location doesn't make sense.

=head2 all_open_locations

Returns all the locations on the map.

    my @locs = $mq->all_open_locations;
    my ($x,$y) = @{ $locs[0] };

It will optionally return the array as an arrayref:

    my $locs = $mq->all_open_locations;
    my ($x,$y) = @{ $locs->[0] };

=head2 random_open_location

Returns a single random open location from the map.

    my ($x,$y) = $mq->random_open_location;

It will optionally return the location as an array:

    my @xy = $mq->random_open_location;

=head2 locations_in_path
=head2 locations_in_line_of_sight
=head2 locations_in_range_and_line_of_sight

=head2 melee_cover
=head2 ranged_cover
=head2 ignorable_cover

=head2 is_open

Takes a standard C<($x,$y)> pair as arguments.  Returns a boolean indicating
whether a location is an open tile (true) or a wall tile (false).  This is
actually the function you can use to see if a location "makes sense" as first
described in C<add()>.

=head2 is_door

Takes a semi-standard C<($x,$y,$d)> triplet as arguments (where C<$d> is 'C<n>',
'C<e>', 'C<s>', or 'C<w>').  Returns a boolean indicating whether a closure is a
door.  Raises an error if the location doesn't make sense.

=head2 is_door_open

Takes a semi-standard C<($x,$y,$d)> triplet as arguments (where C<$d> is 'C<n>',
'C<e>', 'C<s>', or 'C<w>').  Returns a boolean indicating whether a door is
closed.  Raises errors if the location doesn't make sense or there isn't a door
there.

=head2 open_door

Takes a C<($x,$y,$d)> closure triplet as arguments.  Raises errors if the
location doesn't make sense, there isn't a door, or the door is already open.

=head2 close_door

Takes a C<($x,$y,$d)> closure triplet as arguments.  Raises errors if the
location doesn't make sense, there isn't a door, or the door is already closed.

=head2 map_range

Returns either the position of the last column of the map (rather like
C<$#array>) or an array of all the columns on the map (like C<0 .. $#array>).

=head2 map_domain

Returns either the position of the last row of the map (rather like
C<$#array>) or an array of all the rows on the map (like C<0 .. $#array>).

=head1 AUTHOR

Paul Miller C<jettero@cpan.org>

I am using this software in my own projects...  If you find bugs, please please
please let me know.

I normally hang out on #perl on freenode, so you can try to get immediate
gratification there if you like.  L<irc://irc.freenode.net/perl>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2008 Paul Miller -- LGPL [Software::License::LGPL_2_1]

    perl -MSoftware::License::LGPL_2_1 \
         -e '$l = Software::License::LGPL_2_1->new({
             holder=>"Paul Miller"});
             print $l->fulltext' | less

=head1 SEE ALSO

perl(1), L<Games::RolePlay::MapGen>
